---
author: wolpert
comments: true
date: 2006-10-31 20:26:18+00:00
layout: post
link: https://codeheadsystems.wordpress.com/2006/10/31/quitting/
slug: quitting
title: Quitting
wordpress_id: 30
categories:
- Business
---

I quit the other day.  It was actually more difficult then that sounds.  I wrote the letter and sent it to my boss.  I swear it took me 20 minutes to write it.  It consisted only of three sentences.

The hard part of quiting was leaving my friends.  Its one thing to leave co-workers.  That sucks too because they may be counting on you being there to solve problems and help guide future direction.  But I left my friends too.  That really hurt.

A couple of days after I quit, this [news release](http://www.skillsoft.com/about/press_room/press_releases/Oct_25_06_release.asp) came out.  It seems that it is now public knowledge that SkillSoft bought my company... a company that bought my company years before.  I guess the real thing there is that neither of the companies in question were mine.  I kinda forgot that.  I was just along for the ride.

Considering the above, the real question is what am I leaving?  Here's the thing; my next job is working full time for some friends of the family; doing Ruby development.  Specifically, the project makes use of the RubyOnRails framework.  I turned down higher paying Java architect positions for this Ruby software development one.  In other words, I'm buying into the Ruby hype now like I did the Java one 11 years ago.

The party will start on November 13th.  I'm hoping this one will last at least as long as the previous...
